Changes: 25.03
==============

..
   STYLE:
   * Capitalize sentences.
   * Use the imperative tense: Add, Improve, Change, etc.
   * Use a period (.) at the end of entries.
   * Be concise yet informative.
   * If possible, provide an executive summary of the new feature, but do not
     just repeat its doc string. However, if the feature requires changes from
     the user, then describe those changes in detail, and provide examples of
     the changes required.


.. rubric:: General

- Add an environment variable ``LEGATE_MAX_EXCEPTION_SIZE`` that determines the maximum
  number of bytes for an exception that can be raised by a task.
- Improve specification of logging levels. These may now be specified in a more
  human-readable manner. Instead of ``--logging some_logger=2``, the user may now pass
  ``--logging some_logger=info``. To see supported values for this feature, see the
  ``--help`` output of the legate driver, or by running with ``LEGATE_CONFIG=--help``. To
  ease adoption, the old numeric logging values continue to be supported.
- Add support for ``FORCE_COLOR`` and ``NO_COLOR`` environment variables. In keeping with
  https://force-color.org/ and https://no-color.org/ if both are defined, then
  ``FORCE_COLOR`` takes precedence.
- Move ``legate-bind.sh`` to ``share/legate/libexec``. This is a low-level tool that is
  usually not invoked by the user directly, and moving it to this new directory reflects
  this. The user should instead launch their programs directly, or, for greater
  convenience use the ``legate`` launcher.

C++
---

.. rubric:: General

.. rubric:: Data

.. rubric:: Mapping

.. rubric:: Partitioning

.. rubric:: Tasks

- Remove ``legate::VariantOptions::return_size``.
- Add ``legate::TaskInfo``. This class has technically always existed, but was
  undocumented.
- Add ``legate::VariantInfo``. This class has technically always existed, but was
  undocumented.
- Add ``legate::VariantOptions::has_side_effect`` and
  ``legate::VariantOptions::with_has_side_effect()``, to indicate that a variant has
  external side-effects, and therefore shouldn't be replicated.
- Add ``legate::VariantOptions::may_throw_exception`` and
  ``legate::VariantOptions::with_may_throw_exception()`` to indicate that a variant may
  throw a C++ exception.
- Add ``legate::VariantOptions::communicators`` and
  ``legate::VariantOptions::with_communicators()`` to indicate that a variant will use the
  specified communicator(s).

.. rubric:: Types

.. rubric:: Runtime

- Add ``legate::Runtime::start_profiling_range`` and
  ``legate::Runtime::stop_profiling_range`` to create Legion profile ranges.
- Change ``legate::Library::register_task()``. It now takes a ``const legate::TaskInfo &``
  instead of a ``std::unique_ptr<legate::TaskInfo>``
- Change ``legate::Library::find_task()``. It now returns a ``legate::TaskInfo`` instead
  of a ``const legate::TaskInfo *``.

.. rubric:: Utilities

- Allow constructing a ``legate::Span`` directly from container-like objects.
- Allow constructing a ``legate::Span`` directly from a ``std::initializer_list``.
- Add ``legate::Span::data()``.

.. rubric:: I/O


Python
------

.. rubric:: General

.. rubric:: Data

.. rubric:: Mapping

.. rubric:: Partitioning

.. rubric:: Tasks

- Add ``legate.core.ProfileRange`` context manager to activate the API for
  generating sub-boxes on the profiler.

.. rubric:: Types

.. rubric:: Runtime

.. rubric:: Utilities

.. rubric:: I/O
