..
  SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2022-2026 NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
  SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Changes: 25.07
==============
..
   STYLE:
   * Capitalize sentences.
   * Use the imperative tense: Add, Improve, Change, etc.
   * Use a period (.) at the end of entries.
   * Be concise yet informative.
   * If possible, provide an executive summary of the new feature, but do not
     just repeat its doc string. However, if the feature requires changes from
     the user, then describe those changes in detail, and provide examples of
     the changes required.


.. rubric:: General

- ``LEGATE_NEED_*`` environment variables are no longer consulted to infer what
  build-time features (e.g. CUDA support or networking support) are required for
  the current run. Legate can infer this automatically.
- Legate now expects to always initialize Legion during ``legate::start()``. If Legion is
  already initialized at this stage, an exception is thrown.
- Drop support for Python 3.10 and add support for Python 3.13.
- Command line option ``--spy`` has been removed.  The Legion spy tool is not at the
  right level of abstraction for end-users.

C++
---

.. rubric:: General

- Add ability for users to statically declare task-wide configuration options, such as the
  task's signature, constraints, and default variant options via a new ``static const
  legate::TaskConfig TASK_CONFIG`` member on task declarations.

  As part of this new feature, the old-style ``TASK_ID`` member is no longer read. Since
  this would otherwise be a silent breaking change, we have elected to emit a static
  assertion (i.e. a compiler error) in case the old-style ``TASK_ID`` member is
  found. This static assertion is only emitted in places where dynamically passing the
  task ID is not possible. Specifically, if the user calls the following routines:

  - ``legate::LegateTask::register_variants(std::map<VariantCode, VariantOptions>)``
  - ``legate::LegateTask::register_variants(legate::Library, const std::map<legate::VariantCode, legate::VariantOptions>&)``

  Then an error **will** be emitted if ``TASK_ID`` is detected. Calling the
  ``register_variants()`` overload which accepts either a ``legate::TaskConfig`` or
  ``legate::LocalTaskID`` will not emit an error.

.. rubric:: Data

- Add support for ``std::vector<bool>`` to ``legate::Scalar``.
- Add an optional ``target`` parameter to
  ``legate::LogicalArray::get_physical_array()`` and
  ``legate::LogicalStore::get_physical_store()``. The ``target`` controls where
  the physical array/store is allocated.
- Add ``legate::InlineAllocation::target`` member to signify which kind of memory the
  inline allocation holds.
- Add ``legate::TaskLocalBuffer``, a type-and-dimension-erased buffer object for use
  within tasks.

.. rubric:: Mapping

- Remove ``legate::mapping::InstanceMappingPolicy::subsumes``. This function
  would compare the requested layouts between two policies, to decide if an
  Instance allocated for one Store could be reused for another. After recent
  changes, two Instances created for the same requested layout can have
  different actual layouts, depending on the transformations of the
  corresponding Stores. Remove this function to avoid any confusion.

.. rubric:: Partitioning

.. rubric:: Tasks

- Add ``legate::TaskConfig``.
- Add ``legate::LegateTask::register_variants()`` overload which accepts a
  ``legate::TaskConfig``.

.. rubric:: Tuning

- Move ``legate::Scope`` to a separate group (``tuning``) in documentation.
- ``legate/runtime/scope.h`` is now ``legate/tuning/scope.h``.
- Add ``legate::ParallelPolicy`` to describe parallelization policies for a scope.
  ``legate::ParallelPolicy`` objects can be used with ``legate::Scope``.

.. rubric:: Types

.. rubric:: Runtime

.. rubric:: Utilities

- Add ``legate::Span::rbegin()`` and ``legate::Span::rend()`` to allow reverse iteration.
- Add ``legate::Span::front()`` and ``legate::Span::back()`` to allow accessing the first
  and last element.

.. rubric:: I/O


Python
------

.. rubric:: General

.. rubric:: Data

- Add an optional ``target`` parameter to
  ``legate.core.LogicalArray.get_physical_array()`` and
  ``legate.core.LogicalStore.get_physical_store()``. The ``target`` controls
  where the physical array/store is allocated.
- Add ``legate.core.InlineAllocation.target`` property to retrieve the type of memory held
  by the allocation.
- Add support for the PEP-3118 buffer protocol to ``legate.core.InlineAllocation``.
- Add ``legate.core.PhysicalStore.create_output_buffer()``.
- Add ``legate.core.PhysicalStore.bind_data()``.

.. rubric:: Mapping

.. rubric:: Partitioning

.. rubric:: Tasks

- Add ``legate.core.VariantOptions`` to allow describing per-variant configuration options.
- Add ``legate.core.TaskContext.is_single_task()``.
- Add ``legate.core.TaskContext.task_index``.
- Add ``legate.core.TaskContext.launch_domain``.
- Add ``legate.core.TaskContext.machine``.
- Add ``legate.core.TaskContext.provenance``.
- Add ``legate.core.TaskContext.task_stream``.
- Add ``legate.core.task.PyTask.library`` to retrieve the ``Library`` that a task was
  registered with.
- Add ``legate.core.TaskConfig``.
- Change ``legate.core.task.task()`` arguments. Replace ``throws_exception`` and
  ``throws_exception`` with ``options``, which is either a ``legate.core.TaskConfig`` or
  ``legate.core.VariantOptions``.
- Change ``legate.core.task.PyTask.__init__()``. Replace ``throws_exception`` and
  ``throws_exception`` with ``options``, which is either a ``legate.core.TaskConfig`` or
  ``legate.core.VariantOptions``.
- Remove ``legate.core.task.PyTask.UNREGISTERED_ID``.
- Add support for unbound stores in Python tasks.
- Add ``legate.core.TaskLocalBuffer``.

.. rubric:: Tuning

- Move ``legate.core.Scope`` to a separate group (``tuning``) in documentation.
- Add ``legate.core.ParallelPolicy`` to describe parallelization policies for a scope.
  ``legate.core.ParallelPolicy`` objects can be used with ``legate.core.Scope``.

.. rubric:: Types

.. rubric:: Runtime

- Add ``legate.core.ResourceConfig`` to specify library resource configuration parameters.
- Add ``legate.core.Runtime.find_or_create_library()`` to search for, or create
  ``Library`` instances.
- Add ``legate.core.Library.name`` to access the name of the library.

.. rubric:: Utilities

.. rubric:: I/O
