..
  SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2022-2025 NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
  SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Changes: 25.09
==============

..
   STYLE:
   * Capitalize sentences.
   * Use the imperative tense: Add, Improve, Change, etc.
   * Use a period (.) at the end of entries.
   * Be concise yet informative.
   * If possible, provide an executive summary of the new feature, but do not
     just repeat its doc string. However, if the feature requires changes from
     the user, then describe those changes in detail, and provide examples of
     the changes required.


.. rubric:: General

C++
---

.. rubric:: General

- Add config option ``--profile-name`` to customize the base filename for profiling
  output.
- Add new UCX networking backend. On supporting builds (``LEGATE_DEFINED(LEGATE_USE_UCX)``
  being ``1``), CPU collectives can be routed through UCX by disabling
  MPI (``LEGATE_CONFIG=--disable-mpi``).

.. rubric:: Data

.. rubric:: Mapping

.. rubric:: Partitioning

- Add overload of ``legate::align()`` that takes a span of variables to align as a
  convenience for aligning multiple task arguments.
- Add overload of ``legate::broadcast()`` that takes a span of variables to broadcast as a
  convenience for broadcasting multiple task arguments.
- Add overload of ``legate::broadcast()`` that takes a span of pairs of variables and axes
  to broadcast as a convenience for broadcasting multiple task arguments.

.. rubric:: Tasks

.. rubric:: Types

.. rubric:: Runtime

.. rubric:: Utilities

- Remove previously deprecated classes ``legate::cuda::StreamPool`` and
  ``legate::cuda::StreamView``.

.. rubric:: I/O


Python
------

.. rubric:: General

.. rubric:: Data

.. rubric:: Mapping

.. rubric:: Partitioning

- Change ``legate.core.align()`` to return an iterable of constraints instead of a single
  value.
- Change ``legate.core.broadcast()`` to return an iterable of constraints instead of a
  single value.

.. rubric:: Tasks

.. rubric:: Types

.. rubric:: Runtime

- Expose profiling range functions to Python: ``legate.core.start_profiling_range()`` and
  ``legate.core.stop_profiling_range()``.
- Add ``legate.core.runtime.config`` property to access runtime configuration. Note that this
  API is considered an implementation detail and has no guarantee of stability.

.. rubric:: Utilities

.. rubric:: I/O
