..
  SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2022-2026 NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
  SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Changes: 26.06
==============
..
   STYLE:
   * Capitalize sentences.
   * Use the imperative tense: Add, Improve, Change, etc.
   * Use a period (.) at the end of entries.
   * Be concise yet informative.
   * If possible, provide an executive summary of the new feature, but do not
     just repeat its doc string. However, if the feature requires changes from
     the user, then describe those changes in detail, and provide examples of
     the changes required.


.. rubric:: General

C++
---

.. rubric:: General

.. rubric:: Data

.. rubric:: Mapping

.. rubric:: Partitioning

- Add ``legate::min_extents()`` that creates minimum-extent partitioning constraints. With the
  constraints, tasks can inform the partitioner of desirable minimum extents of sub-stores.

.. rubric:: Tasks

- Add an ``is_key_partition`` parameter to ``legate::ManualTask::add_input``,
  ``legate::ManualTask::add_output``, and ``legate::ManualTask::add_reduction``. With the new
  parameter, manual tasks can now specify key partitions.

.. rubric:: Types

.. rubric:: Runtime

.. rubric:: Utilities

.. rubric:: I/O


Python
------

.. rubric:: General

.. rubric:: Data

- Add ``legate.core.ExternalAllocation`` for wrapping externally-owned memory
  buffers, with ``legate.core.ExternalAllocation.from_sysmem()``,
  ``legate.core.ExternalAllocation.from_fbmem()``,
  ``legate.core.ExternalAllocation.from_zcmem()``, and
  ``legate.core.ExternalAllocation.from_dlpack()`` factories.

.. rubric:: Mapping

.. rubric:: Partitioning

- Add ``legate.core.min_extents()`` that creates minimum-extent partitioning constraints. With the
  constraints, tasks can inform the partitioner of desirable minimum extents of sub-stores. The
  constraints can also be used with Python tasks.

.. rubric:: Tasks

- Add an ``is_key_partition`` parameter to ``legate.core.ManualTask.add_input``,
  ``legate.core.ManualTask.add_output``, and ``legate.core.ManualTask.add_reduction``. With the new
  parameter, manual tasks can now specify key partitions.

.. rubric:: Types

.. rubric:: Runtime

- Add ``legate.core.Runtime.create_store_from_tiles()`` to attach multiple
  ``legate.core.ExternalAllocation`` objects as the tiles of a single
  ``legate.core.LogicalStore``, returning the store along with its tile
  partition.

.. rubric:: Utilities

.. rubric:: I/O
